Accessibility(a11y) refers to the design and development of products, so that they can be used by all people, regardless of their physical, sensory or cognitive abilities.

**World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)** develops web standards such as HTML, CSS, etc., on top of that they develop web accessibility guidelines, technical specifications, and educational resources to help make the web accessible to people with disabilities as part of the **Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)**, it results on **WCAG documents**. 

# WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines):

They explain how to make web content more accessible to people with disabilities, web “content” generally refers to the information in a web page or web application, including _natural information such as text, images, and sounds_.

  - The guidelines are organized under 4 principles:

    - Perceptible: Information and user interface components should be presented to users in a way that they can perceive.

    - Operable: User interface components and navigation should be operable.

    - Understandable: The information and operation of the user interface must be understandable.

    - Robust: Content should be robust enough to be reliably interpreted by a wide variety of user agents, including assistive technologies.

  - Conformance Levels:

    - Level A: Minimum requirements.

    - Level AA: Medium requirements, recommended for most sites.

    - Level AAA: More stringent requirements.

# Principles for Building Accessible Applications

- Inclusive Design:

  - Involve people with disabilities in the design process.

  - Conduct usability testing with real users.

- Use of Assistive Technology:

  - Compatibility with screen readers.

  - Include textual alternatives for images and multimedia.

- Clear and Consistent Navigation:

  - Logical navigation structure.

  - Facilitate keyboard navigation.

- Adequate Colors and Contrasts:

  - Use color combinations that provide good contrast.

  - Avoid exclusive use of color to convey information.

- Understandable Content:

  - Use clear and simple language.

  - Provide clear and concise instructions.

# Success criteria

## Principle 1: Perceptible

1.1 Textual Alternatives

1.1.1 Non-Textual Content (A)

1.2 Time-Based Content

1.2.1 Audio Only and Video Only (Prerecorded) (A)

1.2.2 Subtitles (Prerecorded) (A)

1.2.3 Audio Description or Alternative Media (Prerecorded) (A)

1.2.4 Closed Captioning (Live) (AA)

1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded) (AA)

1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded) (AAA)

1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded) (AAA)

1.2.8 Alternative Media (Live) (AAA)

1.2.9 Audio Only (Live) (AAA)

1.3 Adaptive

1.3.1 Information and Relationships (A)

1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence (A)

1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics (A)

1.3.4 Orientation (AA)

1.3.5 Input Identification (AA)

1.3.6 Purpose of Identification (AAA)

1.4 Distinguishable

1.4.1 Use of Color (A)

1.4.2 Audio Control (A)

1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum) (AA)

1.4.4 Text Resizing (AA)

1.4.5 Text Images (AA)

1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced) (AAA)

1.4.7 Audio Synchronized or Low Background (AAA)

1.4.8 Visual Presentation (AAA)

1.4.9 Text Images (No Exception) (AAA)

1.4.10 Reflow (AA)

1.4.11 Contrast of Non-Textual Content (AA)

1.4.12 Text Spacing (AA)

1.4.13 Floating Content in Hover (AA)

## Principle 2: Operable

2.1 Keyboard Accessible

2.1.1 Keyboard (A)

2.1.2 No Keyboard Traps (A)

2.1.3 Keyboard (No Exception) (AAA)

2.1.4 Keyboard Shortcuts (AA)

2.2 Sufficient Time

2.2.1 User Adjustable (A)

2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide

2.2.3 No Time Limit (AAA)

2.2.4 Interruptions (AAA)

2.2.5 Re-authentication (AAA)

2.3 Epileptic Seizures

2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold (A)

2.3.2 Three Flashes (AAA)

2.4 Navigable

2.4.1 Avoid Blocks (A)

2.4.2 Titled Page (A)

2.4.3 Focus Order (A)

2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context) (A)

2.4.5 Multiple Forms (AA)

2.4.6 Headings and Labels (AA)

2.4.7 Visible Focus (AA)

2.4.8 Location (AAA)

2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only) (AAA)

2.4.10 Section Titles (AAA)

2.5 Input Modalities

2.5.1 Pointer Gestures (A)

2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation (A)

2.5.3 Name Tag (A)

2.5.4 Motion Activation (A)

2.5.5 Target size (AAA)

2.5.6 Concurrent Input Mechanisms (AAA)

## Principle 3: Understandable

3.1 Readable

3.1.1 Page Language (A)

3.1.2 Language of the Parts (AA)

3.1.3 Unusual Words (AAA)

3.1.4 Abbreviations (AAA)

3.1.5 Reading Level (AAA)

3.1.6 Pronunciation (AAA)

3.2 Predictable

3.2.1 Focus (A)

3.2.2 On Entry (A)

3.2.3 Consistent Navigation (AA)

3.2.4 Consistent Identification (AA)

3.2.5 Change on Request (AAA)

3.3 Entry Assistance

3.3.1 Error Identification (A)

3.3.2 Labels or Instructions (A)

3.3.3 Error Suggestion (AA)

3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data) (AA)

3.3.5 Help (AAA)

3.3.6 Error Prevention (All) (AAA)

## Principle 4: Robust

4.1 Compatible

4.1.1 Analysis (A)

4.1.2 Name, Function, Value (A)

_[Full details on WCAG here](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/)_

# Common a11y standards

- Use **HTML semantic tags**, for instance for an element with a list of children, use `<ul>` and `<li>` elements.

- There must be **sufficient contrast** between foreground and background text colors and images of text.

- All interactive functionality needs to be **operable with the keyboard**.

- **Focus** should follow a logical progression of steps based on the business logic of the page, `tabindex` allows to control the elements that are "visible" to user's tab flow.

- **Visual cues** like bold border are useful to identify which element has focus.

- Use declarative tags, in case there is a div which is a generic tag you can use **role attribute** to be more specific, for instance, the parent element of a toolbar could be defined as `role="toolbar"`.

- Elements with changing state like **expand/collapse** elements, should keep track of its state using `aria-expanded="false"` or `aria-selected="false"` for checkboxes.

- Custom elements should give more **information to help the user understand** its behavior and how to interact with it, using `aria-label="myMessage"` allows to convey extra information.

_[ARIA elements full definition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA)_